//useless paragraph. was made while 85% asleep// Sociology starts with man interacting with man. Man learns and recognizes man. To start with a few men and a built civilization is working with data already processed with recursive functions. It is the first interactions that spawn the foundations of society: language, cooperation, etc.. Without man: does truth exist in solipsism? The lone man must contain retention that correlates to his world. Before society is the need to recognize the world and to take what is experienced and create a generality out of it. Generality here is the most important concept of the man. With interaction, the intent and interpretation between the interaction starts. This introduces a new correlation but it is not a correlation of metaphysics, internal phenomenology, or sole epistemology. It is the correlation of meaning: intent and interpretation are capable of drifting away from the original meanings of what the human mean.

Metaphysical must be assumed to be the base level of the entirety. What is known is that experience is undeniable in reference to the entirety and although it is deniable to say that the entirety is non-existent, it is not deniable that experience does not exist given that experience contains the actions, will, the memories, and ideas of the subject. In whatever our experience that constitutes temporality actually is, there are generalities that are able to be broken down conceptually into derivatives. The derivatives, hopefully broken down enough to become primitive and elementary, are then hopefully a revelation to what the processes of the ideal domain look like. Whatever the foundations of the ideal domain look like may correspond, patterns within what the foundation is compared to the latter, with the contingencies of what the metaphysical domain, or the entirety, does and operates with.
What is after the supposed zero-order is probably the phenomenological foundations. There could be some self-studying exercises to derive the foundations: in all of experience, we find that the capacity for vision, hearing, feeling, and other senses exist. We find that we notice, we think, we recover what is noticed and thought from previous experiences. We find that the object, the attribute, the form and function, and the processes, albeit able to be derived into something else, can be thought of as fundamental to recognition, of course, albeit belonging to a higher order process in the ideal domain. As is with the transcendental contingencies of the metaphysical, we contain the (supposed) least-common-denominators of our classified foundations.
