Husserl,
(pg3 ln 8-10) Nature, one'd say, is the total spatio-temporal universe, the total domain of possible experience. We are accustomed to take the expressions "natural science" and "experiential science" as synonyms.
(note 1) Nature in this case could be thought of as the makeup of total experience. What it is transcendentally is indescribable without ontology as nature in this definition does not preclude ontology nor phenomenology. Nature is to be experienced before nature can phenomenally exist.
This is not to say that it is the byproducts and derivatives of experience. It is merely a conclusion of continuous experience. This domain is the result of the deliberate scientific "essence" of continuous experience

(pg 3 ln 13+) The universe includes everything "worldly" but not everything in the full sense, not every individual object whatever. Hence the question arises: precisely how are nature and the perception of nature, the experience of nature, to be determined? We said at the outset that nature is the field of transcendent - specifically, spatio-temporal - realities. But the concept of real spatio-temporal objectivity, as will soon appear, is insufficient. It will immediately be evident that not all predicates which are, in truth, to be ascribed to spatio-temporal realities, and are actually so ascribe by us, do for all that belong to the essence of the nature-Object which is the correlate of the idea of nature science.
(pg 3-4 ln 28) What underlies the natural science is always an idea of the essence of nature, if only an implicit one Correlatively, the consciousness which functions as natural-scientific experience, and thus also as the thinking pertaining to natural-scientific experience, has its essential phenomenological unity, and this consciousness has its essential correlate in nature.
(note 2) to say the consciousness has its essential correlate in nature: nature as it is spoken of is a collection of ideas of what we would call nature. These ideas can transcendentally correlate from what is given to phenomena to what is metaphysical. Otherwise, saying consciousness has its correlate in nature in the ideal form is placing consciousness only after the ontological level which in technicality can be the only thing posited. Will this then in this case give an intrinsic property to experience as scientific? In continuity of the cognition there is a recollection and understanding of nature, becoming more automatic in sequence of the continuity.

(pg 4 ln 16)Through the phenomenological description of the attitude [of the subject who intuits and things in the natural-scientific way], we will learn that what is termed "nature" is precisely the intentional correlate of experience as carried out in this attitude. Our approach at first will be as follows: the thematic attitude of the natural scientist's experience of nature and experiential research is the doxic-theoretic.
(note 3) Doxastic logic is a type of logic concerned with reasoning about beliefs. Accurate reasoner never believes any false proposition except some propositions can be made false through semantics and heuristic changes. The only safe proposition is the tautology.
(pg 4 ln 22) Over against it are other attitudes: namely, the valuing (in the broadest sense, valuing the beautiful and the good) and the practical attitude. This talk about attitudes obviously refers back to the respective subject, and accordingly we speak of the theoretical or the cognitive subject, of the valuing and the practical subject. Nature is there for the theoretical subject; it belongs to his correlative sphere. Of course, that does not mean simply that nature is already completely determined considered as the correlate of a possible theoretical, cognitive, subject. Nature is an object of possible knowledge, but it does not exhaust he total realm of such objects. Nature, as mere nature, contains no values, no works of art, etc., though these are indeed objects of possible knowledge and science. (pg5) The theoretical attitude: what does that mean? It is not determined merely through the conscious lived experiences we designate as doxic (Objectifying), as representing, judging, thinking acts (whereby we now always want to have in view non-neutralized acts), for doxic lived experiences also occur in the valuing and practical attitude. On the contrary, what is characteristic of it lies in the manner in which such lived experiences are performed or carried out in the function of knowledge.
