1) Necessary contingencies in the substrate-as-is.
All metaphysically possible worlds count as "worlds" but not all can support phenomena. A world that is not itself will not support phenomena (contingency for identity). This creates a finite set of worlds that adhere to the primitives of phenomena. Most metaphysical worlds contain configurations that cannot host phenomena: contingency for contradiction, impossibility, etc., and only those that meet minimal conditions qualify as phenomenal worlds. Phenomenal stability will presuppose that substrate does not collapse into undifferentiated or contradictory states relative to the phenomena's body-as-substrate. Substrate cannot be absolute voidness as it cannot generate variation, raw givenness, or phenomenal form. Substrate form does not require operation but for phenomena to occure, it requires both form and operation. Phenomenal space, time, and objecthood are real only towards the means of our reality: it cannot be said to be metaphyiscal categories. Generativity as variation is required: the inability to differentiate between null-ness deters. Stability is required for the phenomena to not collapse. Substrate-adjacency to the substrate-raw-givenness: In immediate adjacency for phenomena, raw givenness will have correlation to the bodily senses' substrate-as-is and the other substrate forms that contain immediacy with the body. Substrate operation even in minimality is necessary for raw givenness as form alone cannot produce phenomena. "Intuitions" of time and space: primordial or learned? Whether time and space are primordial or learned affects phenomenal structure but does not constrain substrate. Does the body's (substrate-as-is) form have form structure to support these or is it all process structure? tabula rasa. Phenomenal measurement: There is a lack of objective measuring tools for phenomena to be able to accurately hypothesize and shrink possibilities. Since they are interface-relative, they cannot directly report properties of substrate. Minimum requirements of the substrate-as-is must support variation, adjacency with body-as-substrate, and non-collapse. These allow raw givenness to arise and be structurally processed by the interface. //Instead of only using phenomenal reduction; counterfactuals and hypothetical substrate worlds may help to find the minimal concepts of structure: this leads to many configurations of substrate form that need to lead to a general coherent transformational processes. The method isolates interface-invariant constraints, distinguishing phenomenal structures from substrate structures.// These are the conditions for raw-givenness to form before phenomena. The interface imposes segmentation, differentiation, temporalization, spatialization, unification, and recognition upon raw givenness, producing phenomenal form (these impositions should be considered phenomenal categories for the actual process)

2) Substrate-as-Represented (or commonly known as the physical world).
First step: Exclude solipsism. It is impossible to know whether the representation resembles the substrate almost perfectly or if it is entirely different from our representation. The result of the interface's structuring operations create the representation from raw givenness.
Due to the unknowability of the substrate-as-is, it is impossible to know whether cognitive limits and faults are due to the substrate-operations itself, how much the phenomena's bodily form of substrate-as-is impedes phenomenal processing, or whether limitations arise solely from the architecture of the interface
-substrate raw givenness to substrate-representation (physical world): The phenomenal world includes the experienced body and cognitive structures depend on the body-as-substrate's organization (See neurological workings and whatnot).
Bracket the human life sin other sentient/semi-sentient animals and subjects. No language, social reinforcement, and such enter the human. Assume that the human spontaneously learns skills when needed. As the human starts out in the world, the human senses the world only as pure intuition and immediacy, intention geared towards what the human natively decides, and phenomenally almost purified from abstraction (relatively to the human who is born into social life). In growth, behavior must adapt to survive, etc.
